This document describes the use of the PDU php script which allows you 
to control and manipulate the PDUs connected to your black box.

In order to use the pdu.php script the user needs the PHP interpreter and a MySQL database.

On the CD there is software included to set up a Windows web server with PHP and MySQL integrated.

This Document assumes you have the PHP interpreter and the MySQL Database server installed.



Windows Clients

Once you have installed WAMP server with PHP and the MySQL database server you can start by 
copying the needed scripts and files from the "Windows\Tools" directory.

Copy the entire "Tools" directory to a location of your choosing.

This folder contains:

Scripts to do the reading of the units on set intervals:
dataread.bat		Batch file to automate the calling of the data reader script with Task planner.
datareader.php		PHP script which does the actual automated reading.

Scripts to do the controlling of the Black Box commands:
pdu.bat			Batch file to automate the use of the pdu.php script/
pdu.php			PHP script which does the actual controlling of the commands.

NOTE: when you have installed another PHP interpreter then the one from the WAMP server
then make sure you edit the batch files’ paths to the PHP interpreter to suite your system.

Class file for interaction with the COM port:
php_serial.class.php	A special class file which makes the communication possible.

Settings file for user and system settings:
var.php		Very important settings file. Edit this to suite the needs of your setup.


Windows dataread.bat file usage:
In windows, add a task to the task planner:
(located in >> Start >> Accessories >> System Work set >> Task planner)
Give the operation the desired intervals for reading.
For the task, point to the dataread.bat file. 
Once this is running, the data will be stored in the database.

NOTE: Before the task planner can execute the batch file, 
the user needs to make sure the Database is in place.


Windows pdu.bat file usage:
There are several commands that can be performed from the command prompt,
below will be described how to use them.


Creating the database:

When the program is run for the first time, and no database has been created yet,
its advisable to run the create database and tables command.
You do this by issuing the following command:

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -c -d

This will result in a database being created in the MySQL server with the needed tables.
When a database exists, but no tables have been created, you can issue the command:

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -c

Which would only create the tables in the database set in the VAR.inc file.


When the database has been set up with the proper tables it is time to fill the tables
with data collected from the Black Box's connected PDUs.
When performing a scan for unit numbers, and a unit is found, an entry in the database will be 
created for the found unit.



Adding PDUs:

When issued:

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -s -f 1 -t 10

A scan will execute; starting at unit number 1 up to unit number 10.

Defined:
-s  means we are going to perform a scan
-f is the option to start FROM a certain unit number
-t is the option to indicate to scan TO a certain unit number

As an extra, when you want to recreate your data base, you could issue an extra option "-e"
to clear the current tables from the meter units and switch units and start over.

e.g.  c:\location\of\tools>pdu -s -f 100 -t 200 -e

This would empty the current meter and switch tables and start scanning from unit 100 up until 200.
All units found with corresponding unit number will be entered in the database.


Manually reading the data from the units:

When you have one or multiple units in your database, you can issue a read data command.

e.g.  c:\location\of\tools>pdu -r

This will invoke the read data option, collecting the data from the known units,
and stores it in the log table.


Checking if a unit is online:

You can easily check if a known unit in the database is still present.

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -m

This executes the monitor option and sets the online status of a device in the database.



Switching outlets:

When you have devices connected to the switch units you are able to turn them on or off
from a computer connected to the Black Box.  The -x option invokes the switch command.

For example, lets say we have a switch unit connected, unit 1000, and we want to turn on
the fifth outlet, because ALL the outlets are turned off at the moment.

e.g.  c:\location\of\tools>pdu -x -u 1000 ON -o 5

This will execute the command to turn on the fifth outlet from switch unit 1000.
Defined:
-x		Invokes the switch option
-u		unit indicator, follow by the desired unit needed for switching.
ON or OFF	States whether the command turns a switch On or Off.
-o		Outlet indicator, followed by a number for outlet or ALL for all.

Another example, turn all switches on unit 1000 On.

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -x -u 1000 ON -o ALL


Querying the current outlet status:

Before switching a outlets on or off, one often desires to know the current status,
of the outlets, this is achieved by issuing the -q option.

e.g. c:\location\of\tools>pdu -q 1000

This would execute the command to check the current outlets statuses from unit 1000.


Resetting the Kwh displays:

When an meter unit has been running for some time, its often desirable to have
the display reset to zero every so often. this is achieved by performing the -z option.

In this example we have a Kwh meter unit with unit number 1010

c:\location\of\tools>pdu -z 1010

After issuing this command, the display from unit 1010 will be reset to zero.
Also, you can define a range of units to be reset.

e.g. c:\location\of\tools>pdu -z -f 1000 -t 1050

This will reset all Kwh meter displays in the range of 1000 up to 1050.
Defined:
-z 		Reset Kwh display
-f		From, followed by an unit number.
-t		To, followed by an unit number.
